---
layout: post
title: "Learning New Things As A Developer"
tags: [public, free, cs, math, ml, data science, libraries, education, learning]
---

I decided to compile a collection of useful resources I have discovered over the past year that helped me become a better software developer and data scientist. While a quick copy-and-paste of your error message into Google usually fixes bugs as you come across them, sometimes you need more targeted resources when you're learning new things. A search engine is not a great teacher- it spits out a lot of content and often you end up doing more searching than finding. The volume of information can be so overwhelming that I never feel like I have the best possible resource for me and I keep jumping from blog post to blog post, searching for something better. Before I wander too far into material more suitable for a another blog post on choice overload and hyperconsumerism, I will return to just cataloguing public and mostly free resources for those in the tech industry and those aspiring to be part of it. 

High-status knowledge such as computer science can be more difficult for some to access than others. Most of the resources I have listed below are public and open to all but they were particularly useful for myself, someone who was already literate in programming and data science, and someone who prefers reading over watching or listening for self-teaching. However, I am sure the spirit of many of these ideas can be transferred to learning all kinds of subjects, for people of all abilities, preferences and levels of experience.

<!--more-->

## Libraries
Libraries are some of my favourite places in the world. They are an excellent public resource for everyone, one of the few spaces left today that solely exist for the benefit of the entire community. In my experience, public libraries don't usually hold good computer science books for my purposes, but since programming is a popular career option right now, they often have decent **introductory textbooks**. Libraries can also **order books** at request, so it is worthwhile looking into that option at your local library. 

Public libraries are not just rooms full of book shelves- they also organize free or low-cost **workshops and courses**. They also have an increasing amount of **electronic resources** available, from e-books to online courses. I have a Toronto Public Library card and it gives me access to an incredible amount of [tech books](https://www.torontopubliclibrary.ca/elearning/), published by [O'Reilly Media](http://shop.oreilly.com/) for free. Whenever I need to learn something for work that is totally new to me, I turn to this service for textbooks on the topic. Personally, I found learning about big concepts like microservices and test-driven development through textbooks was a lot more effective for me than online articles and tutorials. If you live in a big city, I would highly recommend checking to see if you have a service like this available at your public library.

### Academic Libraries
If you are a student at an educational institution, take advantage of your library. It will likely have a much better selection of technical books than a public library. If you are an alumnus of one, look into **alumni** policies for library access. My university allows alumni to get an alumni card that can be used to access and borrow books from its libraries for free. Even if you are not nearby, electronic resources can still be accessed from anywhere. Academic libraries are also usually open for the public to visit, so even if you cannot borrow books from your local academic library, you can still spend time at their premises reading the books.

## Meet-ups, Workshops and Talks
If you prefer learning in a social setting, **meet-ups** and free (or low-cost) **workshops** could be ideal for you. Some of these are organized by non-profits, others by private companies or universities and quite a few just by regular people. [Meet-ups](https://www.meetup.com) are a great way to get involved with the community and share knowledge. Some function as purely **social** events while others have a technical focus, like **reading groups** for research papers. Many are also spaces for **under-represented groups** to come together and support each other. Workshops and tutorials are a good opportunity to get a basic introduction to technologies that are currently popular since they usually do not have the time to delve too deep into a topic. Universities also host talks that are sometimes open to the public. Again, you are probably going to have more options if you live in a bigger city, but the cool thing about community meet-ups is that you can always start one of your own if you cannot find something for you.

## Source Code
Often times, the official documentation for software that is new to me is not sufficient to get me up and running with it quickly. Learning by example is more efficient for me but the provided examples usually cover the most basic functionality and I need to do something else that is not documented well enough. In that case, I look at the source code if it is available and quickly check for **test cases**, which serve the same purpose as examples. If I cannot find the test cases I am looking for but have an idea of what function or method I might need, I use an [**open-source source code search engine**](https://searchcode.com/) to look for usages across millons of open-source projects. If that strategy is unsuccessful as well, I turn to the author of that software or post on the public forum for that project and get a reply fairly quickly. People in the open-source world are always happy to help and I like to take full advantage of that.

## Book Drafts
A lot of textbook authors post drafts of their books online. While you should be wary of mistakes, if it is a **new edition** of an already published book, I tend to trust the content a lot more. A good example of an important textbook that you can access this way is the 3rd edition of [Speech and Language Processing (Jurafsky & Martin)](https://web.stanford.edu/~jurafsky/slp3/). 

## Survey Papers
If you do not want to read a whole textbook but you still want a **rigorous survey** of a topic that covers its history as well as recent developments in the field, search specifically for survey papers on that topic. I use recent survey papers to get a quick introduction to machine learning topics, since the field is always moving so fast but expert knowledge is quite concentrated in academia. Some of my favourites include this one on [cross-lingual word embeddings](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.04902) and another one on [deep learning for sentiment analysis](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.07883). I usually search directly on [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/) as a starting point.

## The Experts
Authors of textbooks and research papers are experts in their field and their published writing is not the only way they share their knowledge. Some are active on social media and many publish implementations of algorithms they created online. If I see someone's name a lot when I am researching a topic, I like to look them up on **Twitter** and **Github**. They usually tweet about the latest developments in their research field and link me to more resources for learning about that topic. Looking at their Github account is also a fun way to learn more because they often publish open-source implementations of their research and have other cool projects to take a look at. 

